# Crust-DFT EOS

Our EoS describes the relationship between energy density and pressure
in a large three-dimensional ($\mathrm{nB}$, $\mathrm{Ye}$,
$\mathrm{T}$) space,

There are several different physical regimes each constrained by
different observables and theoretical approaches.

First the zero temperature nuclear matter at nuclear saturation
density is closely connected to nuclear masses, charge radii, giant
resonances, and other laboratory observables. Global fits to
experimental data have been performed with Skyrme and covariant
mean-field models.

Secondly, cold neutron matter below nuclear saturation density, is
difficult to probe experimentally but is well-constrained by
theoretical calculations based on semi-phenomenological nuclear forces
or microscopic chiral effective field theory-based interactions.

The third regime, strongly-interacting high-temperature matter, is
best described by interactions and many-body approaches similar to
those applied to cold neutron matter near saturation density.

The fourth regime, low-density and high-temperature matter that is
nearly non-degenerate, is best described by the virial expansion. The
equation of state in this regime is determined from nucleon-nucleon
scattering phase shifts.

Finally, neutron-rich matter at densities above twice saturation
density is most strongly constrained by observations of neutron star
masses and radii, particularly the observation of neutron stars with
$M \simeq 2M_\odot$.

In this work, we construct a phenomenological free energy density that
is consistent with observational and theoretical constraints in the
five aforementioned physical regimes. This is in contrast to works
which attempt to describe matter over the entire density and
temperature range with a single detailed model of the nucleon-nucleon
interaction.

Our second advance is in the treatment of uncertainties. The most
relevant parameters which describe the uncertainties in different
density and temperature regimes are not clearly related. In this work,
through the construction of a phenomenological model one can vary
uncertainties in different regimes independently, without spoiling
agreement elsewhere.

The module produces an EoS table in a 3 dimensional grid of
$\mathrm{nB}$, $\mathrm{Ye}$ and $\mathrm{T}$ and stores various
physical and thermodynamics properties in the data files (detailed
documentation
[here](https://neutronstars.utk.edu/code/eos/table_format.html#thermodynamic-quantities)).

## Quickstart

See Docker documentation.

## Usage

Explain in full detail all of the input and output options.

## Scientific motiviation and algorithm

Provide the scientific background and a description of the primary algorithm implemented by the module.

## References

* cite
* scientific
* references
* here
