doc/table_format.rst, before:

Table Format
============

The table is an HDF5 file and the datasets are given below. Several
quantities are stored in :ref:`o2scl:tensor_grid` objects, which are
stored as HDF5 groups with the name of the group given below. The
contents of the rank 3 tensor are stored in the dataset named data in
each group.

Grid
----

- ``n_nB``: number of points in baryon density grid
- ``n_Ye``: number of points in electron fraction grid
- ``n_T``: number of points in temperature grid
- ``nB_grid``: array containing baryon density grid
  (in :math:`\mathrm{fm}^{-3}`)
- ``Ye_grid``: array containing electron fraction grid
- ``T_grid``: array containing temperature grid
  (in :math:`\mathrm{MeV}`)

Physical quantities
-------------------

These are stored as double-precision numbers.

- ``hc``: :math:`\hbar c` (in :math:`\mathrm{MeV~fm}`)
- ``alpha_em``: :math:`\alpha_{\mathrm{EM}}`, the fine structure constant
- ``m_neut``: the mass of the neutron
  (in :math:`\mathrm{MeV}`)
- ``m_prot``: the mass of the proton in MeV
  (in :math:`\mathrm{MeV}`)

Flags
-----

These are stored as integers.

- ``baryons_only``: 1 (true) if the thermodynamic quantities with
  baryons only are provided (always 1)
- ``with_leptons``: 1 (true) if the thermodynamic quantities with
  leptons are provided, and 0 (false) otherwise.
- ``derivs_computed``: 1 (true) if the baryon part of the pressure
  and the nucleon chemical potentials are included.
- ``alg_mode``: an integer representing the algorithm used to
  compute the table
- ``include_muons``: 0 (false) if muons are not included
  
Quantities for the solver
-------------------------

These are all :ref:`o2scl:tensor_grid` objects. The contents of the
tensor are stored in an HDF5 dataset named "data" in row-major
order (the first index is the baryon density, the second is the
electron fraction, and the third is the temperature).

- ``flag``: A flag indicating if each point is complete, empty, or
  if a guess has been stored (10 means the point is complete).
- ``log_xn``: :math:`\log_{10}(x_n)` where
  :math:`x_n\equiv n_n^{\prime}/n_B`.
- ``log_xp``: :math:`\log_{10}(x_p)` where
  :math:`x_p\equiv n_p^{\prime}/n_B`.
	
- ``A``: The average nuclear mass number	
- ``Z``: The average nuclear charge number

Also, if ``alg_mode`` is either 2, 3, or 4, then the following
tensors are included:
  
- ``A_min``: the smallest value of A in the distribution, not
  including n, p, d, t, :math:`^{3}\mathrm{He}`,
  :math:`^{4}\mathrm{Li}`, and :math:`\alpha`.
- ``A_max``: largest value of A in the distribution, not
  including n, p, d, t, :math:`^{3}\mathrm{He}`,
  :math:`^{4}\mathrm{Li}`, and :math:`\alpha`.
- ``NmZ_min``: the smallest value of :math:`N-Z` in the
  distribution, not including n, p, d, t, :math:`^{3}\mathrm{He}`,
  :math:`^{4}\mathrm{Li}`, and :math:`\alpha`.
- ``NmZ_max``: the largest value of :math:`N-Z` in the
  distribution, not including n, p, d, t, :math:`^{3}\mathrm{He}`,
  :math:`^{4}\mathrm{Li}`, and :math:`\alpha`.

Composition
-----------
	
These are all :ref:`o2scl:tensor_grid` objects and included for
all tables.

- ``Xn``: the baryon number fraction of neutrons (this includes only
  the neutrons in the low-density phase, i.e. the neutrons not inside
  nuclei)
- ``Xp``: the baryon number fraction of protons (this includes only
  the protons in the low-density phase, i.e. the protons not inside
  nuclei)
- ``Xalpha``: the baryon number fraction of alpha particles
- ``Xd``: the baryon number fraction of deuterons
- ``Xt``: the baryon number fraction of tritons
- ``XHe3``: the baryon number fraction of :math:`^{3}\mathrm{He}`,
- ``XLi4``: the baryon number fraction of :math:`^{4}\mathrm{Li}`
- ``Xnuclei``: the baryon number fraction of nuclei

The sum of these eight quantities should be close to 1 for all
points in the table.

Thermodynamic quantities
------------------------

In this section, all quantities are stored as
:ref:`o2scl:tensor_grid` objects.

Three quantities are included for all tables:

- ``Fint``: the baryon part of the free energy per baryon
  (in :math:`\mathrm{MeV}`)
- ``Sint``: the baryon part of the entropy per baryon
- ``Eint``: the baryon part of the internal energy per baryon
  (in :math:`\mathrm{MeV}`)

The relation :math:`F_{\mathrm{int}}=E_{\mathrm{int}}-T
S_{\mathrm{int}}` should hold at all points in the table.
  
If ``include_muons`` is 1, then ``Ymu``, the muon fraction,
is also included. If either ``include_muons`` or ``with_leptons``
is 1, then ``mue``, the electron chemical potential is included.
The electron chemical potential includes the electron rest mass
and is in :math:`\mathrm{MeV}`. 

If ``derivs_computed`` is 1, then the following quantities are
also included:

- ``Pint``: the baryon part of the pressure 
  (in :math:`\mathrm{MeV}/\mathrm{fm}^3`)
- ``mun``: the neutron chemical potential
  (in :math:`\mathrm{MeV}`)
- ``mup``: the proton chemical potential
  (in :math:`\mathrm{MeV}`)

The thermodynamic identity,

.. math::

   E_{\mathrm{int}} n_B = - P_{\mathrm{int}} + S_{\mathrm{int}} n_B T
   + \bar{n}_n \mu_{n} + \bar{n}_p \mu_{p}

where :math:`\bar{n}_n\equiv n_B(1-Y_e)` and :math:`\bar{n}_p\equiv
n_B Y_e` should be satisfied for all of the points in the table.

The neutron and proton rest mass have been subtracted out from the
neutron and proton chemical potentials (indepedent of whether or not
the model implies a relativistic dispersion relation for the
nucleons). See also :ref:`Chemical Potentials` for some helpful
information on chemical potentials and the associated thermodynamic
identity. If ``with_leptons`` is 1, then the electron chemical
potential is included (as described above) and the following four
quantities are also included:

- ``F``: the total free energy per baryon
  (in :math:`\mathrm{MeV}`)
- ``S``: the total entropy per baryon
- ``E``: the total internal energy per baryon
  (in :math:`\mathrm{MeV}`)
- ``P``: the total pressure 
  (in :math:`\mathrm{MeV}/\mathrm{fm}^3`)

The thermodynamic identity,

.. math::

   E n_B = - P + S n_B T
   + \bar{n}_n \mu_{n} + \bar{n}_p (\mu_{p}+\mu_{e})

should be satisfied for all of the points in the table.     
  
String arrays
-------------

For compatibility with O\ :sub:`2`\ scl, a set of two string arrays is
also included. The first, ``oth_names`` contains the list: ``Xd, Xt,
XHe3, XLi4, flag, log_xn, and log_xp``. If ``alg_mode`` is 2 or
larger, ``oth_names`` also contains ``A_min, A_max, NmZ_min,
NmZ_max``. The second, ``oth_units``, contains a set of empty strings
because none of the tensors referred to in the ``oth_names`` list have
any units. The unsigned integer ``n_oth`` contains the size of the
``oth_names`` array.

Electron and photon table
-------------------------

The electron and photon table, contains five :ref:`o2scl:tensor_grid`
objects which includes electrons, positrons, and photons, 

- ``F``: the free energy per baryon
  (in :math:`\mathrm{MeV}`)
- ``S``: the entropy per baryon
- ``E``: the internal energy per baryon
  (in :math:`\mathrm{MeV}`)
- ``P``: the pressure 
  (in :math:`\mathrm{MeV}/\mathrm{fm}^3`)
- ``mue``: the electron chemical potential
  (in :math:`\mathrm{MeV}`)

Nuclear masses table
--------------------

The nuclear massses table, contains a :ref:`o2scl:table`
object with the columns

- ``Z``: the proton number,
- ``N``: the neutron number,
- ``g``: the spin degeneracy,
- ``m``: the total mass
  (in :math:`\mathrm{MeV}`),
- ``be``: the binding energy
  (in :math:`\mathrm{MeV}`),
- ``Sn``: the neutron separation energy
  (in :math:`\mathrm{MeV}`),
- ``Sp``: the proton separation energy
  (in :math:`\mathrm{MeV}`),
- ``mass_type``: 1 for light nucleus, 2 for AME, 3 for FRDM, and
  4 for extrapolated FRDM results, and
- ``spin_type``: 1 for light nucleus, 2 for Jexp from HFB fit, 3
  for Jth from HFB fit, 4 for simple ansatz.

Commit message:

Updating hrg and point_nuclei output.

doc/table_format.rst, after:

Table Format
============

The table is an HDF5 file and the datasets are given below. Several
quantities are stored in :ref:`o2scl:tensor_grid` objects, which are
stored as HDF5 groups with the name of the group given below. The
contents of the rank 3 tensor are stored in the dataset named data in
each group.

Grid
----

- ``n_nB``: number of points in baryon density grid
- ``n_Ye``: number of points in electron fraction grid
- ``n_T``: number of points in temperature grid
- ``nB_grid``: array containing baryon density grid
  (in :math:`\mathrm{fm}^{-3}`)
- ``Ye_grid``: array containing electron fraction grid
- ``T_grid``: array containing temperature grid
  (in :math:`\mathrm{MeV}`)

Physical quantities
-------------------

These are stored as double-precision numbers.

- ``hc``: :math:`\hbar c` (in :math:`\mathrm{MeV~fm}`)
- ``alpha_em``: :math:`\alpha_{\mathrm{EM}}`, the fine structure constant
- ``m_neut``: the mass of the neutron
  (in :math:`\mathrm{MeV}`)
- ``m_prot``: the mass of the proton in MeV
  (in :math:`\mathrm{MeV}`)

Flags
-----

These are stored as integers.

- ``baryons_only``: 1 (true) if the thermodynamic quantities with
  baryons only are provided (always 1)
- ``with_leptons``: 1 (true) if the thermodynamic quantities with
  leptons are provided, and 0 (false) otherwise.
- ``derivs_computed``: 1 (true) if the baryon part of the pressure
  and the nucleon chemical potentials are included.
- ``alg_mode``: an integer representing the algorithm used to
  compute the table
- ``include_muons``: 0 (false) if muons are not included
  
Quantities for the solver
-------------------------

These are all :ref:`o2scl:tensor_grid` objects. The contents of the
tensor are stored in an HDF5 dataset named "data" in row-major
order (the first index is the baryon density, the second is the
electron fraction, and the third is the temperature).

- ``flag``: A flag indicating if each point is complete, empty, or
  if a guess has been stored (10 means the point is complete).
- ``log_xn``: :math:`\log_{10}(x_n)` where
  :math:`x_n\equiv n_n^{\prime}/n_B`.
- ``log_xp``: :math:`\log_{10}(x_p)` where
  :math:`x_p\equiv n_p^{\prime}/n_B`.
	
- ``A``: The average nuclear mass number	
- ``Z``: The average nuclear charge number

Also, if ``alg_mode`` is either 2, 3, or 4, then the following
tensors are included:
  
- ``A_min``: the smallest value of A in the distribution, not
  including n, p, d, t, :math:`^{3}\mathrm{He}`,
  :math:`^{4}\mathrm{Li}`, and :math:`\alpha`.
- ``A_max``: largest value of A in the distribution, not
  including n, p, d, t, :math:`^{3}\mathrm{He}`,
  :math:`^{4}\mathrm{Li}`, and :math:`\alpha`.
- ``NmZ_min``: the smallest value of :math:`N-Z` in the
  distribution, not including n, p, d, t, :math:`^{3}\mathrm{He}`,
  :math:`^{4}\mathrm{Li}`, and :math:`\alpha`.
- ``NmZ_max``: the largest value of :math:`N-Z` in the
  distribution, not including n, p, d, t, :math:`^{3}\mathrm{He}`,
  :math:`^{4}\mathrm{Li}`, and :math:`\alpha`.

Composition
-----------
	
These are all :ref:`o2scl:tensor_grid` objects and included for
all tables.

- ``Xn``: the baryon number fraction of neutrons (this includes only
  the neutrons in the low-density phase, i.e. the neutrons not inside
  nuclei)
- ``Xp``: the baryon number fraction of protons (this includes only
  the protons in the low-density phase, i.e. the protons not inside
  nuclei)
- ``Xalpha``: the baryon number fraction of alpha particles
- ``Xd``: the baryon number fraction of deuterons
- ``Xt``: the baryon number fraction of tritons
- ``XHe3``: the baryon number fraction of :math:`^{3}\mathrm{He}`,
- ``XLi4``: the baryon number fraction of :math:`^{4}\mathrm{Li}`
- ``Xnuclei``: the baryon number fraction of nuclei

The sum of these eight quantities should be close to 1 for all points
in the table. Note that ``Xn`` and ``Xp`` do not store the local
density of neutrons in the gas phase, those quantities are given in Du
et al. (2022): :math:`n_n^{\prime}\equiv n_n/\xi` and
:math:`n_n^{\prime}\equiv n_p/\xi`. These densities are not stored in
the tables, but are accessible, for example, in the ``point-nuclei``
command. At high densities or temperatures when nuclei are not
present, :math:`\xi=1`.

Thermodynamic quantities
------------------------

In this section, all quantities are stored as
:ref:`o2scl:tensor_grid` objects.

Three quantities are included for all tables:

- ``Fint``: the baryon part of the free energy per baryon
  (in :math:`\mathrm{MeV}`)
- ``Sint``: the baryon part of the entropy per baryon
- ``Eint``: the baryon part of the internal energy per baryon
  (in :math:`\mathrm{MeV}`)

The relation :math:`F_{\mathrm{int}}=E_{\mathrm{int}}-T
S_{\mathrm{int}}` should hold at all points in the table.
  
If ``include_muons`` is 1, then ``Ymu``, the muon fraction,
is also included. If either ``include_muons`` or ``with_leptons``
is 1, then ``mue``, the electron chemical potential is included.
The electron chemical potential includes the electron rest mass
and is in :math:`\mathrm{MeV}`. 

If ``derivs_computed`` is 1, then the following quantities are
also included:

- ``Pint``: the baryon part of the pressure 
  (in :math:`\mathrm{MeV}/\mathrm{fm}^3`)
- ``mun``: the neutron chemical potential
  (in :math:`\mathrm{MeV}`)
- ``mup``: the proton chemical potential
  (in :math:`\mathrm{MeV}`)

The thermodynamic identity,

.. math::

   E_{\mathrm{int}} n_B = - P_{\mathrm{int}} + S_{\mathrm{int}} n_B T
   + \bar{n}_n \mu_{n} + \bar{n}_p \mu_{p}

where :math:`\bar{n}_n\equiv n_B(1-Y_e)` and :math:`\bar{n}_p\equiv
n_B Y_e` should be satisfied for all of the points in the table.

The neutron and proton rest mass have been subtracted out from the
neutron and proton chemical potentials (indepedent of whether or not
the model implies a relativistic dispersion relation for the
nucleons). See also :ref:`Chemical Potentials` for some helpful
information on chemical potentials and the associated thermodynamic
identity. If ``with_leptons`` is 1, then the electron chemical
potential is included (as described above) and the following four
quantities are also included:

- ``F``: the total free energy per baryon
  (in :math:`\mathrm{MeV}`)
- ``S``: the total entropy per baryon
- ``E``: the total internal energy per baryon
  (in :math:`\mathrm{MeV}`)
- ``P``: the total pressure 
  (in :math:`\mathrm{MeV}/\mathrm{fm}^3`)

The thermodynamic identity,

.. math::

   E n_B = - P + S n_B T
   + \bar{n}_n \mu_{n} + \bar{n}_p (\mu_{p}+\mu_{e})

should be satisfied for all of the points in the table.     
  
String arrays
-------------

For compatibility with O\ :sub:`2`\ scl, a set of two string arrays is
also included. The first, ``oth_names`` contains the list: ``Xd, Xt,
XHe3, XLi4, flag, log_xn, and log_xp``. If ``alg_mode`` is 2 or
larger, ``oth_names`` also contains ``A_min, A_max, NmZ_min,
NmZ_max``. The second, ``oth_units``, contains a set of empty strings
because none of the tensors referred to in the ``oth_names`` list have
any units. The unsigned integer ``n_oth`` contains the size of the
``oth_names`` array.

Electron and photon table
-------------------------

The electron and photon table, contains five :ref:`o2scl:tensor_grid`
objects which includes electrons, positrons, and photons, 

- ``F``: the free energy per baryon
  (in :math:`\mathrm{MeV}`)
- ``S``: the entropy per baryon
- ``E``: the internal energy per baryon
  (in :math:`\mathrm{MeV}`)
- ``P``: the pressure 
  (in :math:`\mathrm{MeV}/\mathrm{fm}^3`)
- ``mue``: the electron chemical potential
  (in :math:`\mathrm{MeV}`)

Nuclear masses table
--------------------

The nuclear massses table, contains a :ref:`o2scl:table`
object with the columns

- ``Z``: the proton number,
- ``N``: the neutron number,
- ``g``: the spin degeneracy,
- ``m``: the total mass
  (in :math:`\mathrm{MeV}`),
- ``be``: the binding energy
  (in :math:`\mathrm{MeV}`),
- ``Sn``: the neutron separation energy
  (in :math:`\mathrm{MeV}`),
- ``Sp``: the proton separation energy
  (in :math:`\mathrm{MeV}`),
- ``mass_type``: 1 for light nucleus, 2 for AME, 3 for FRDM, and
  4 for extrapolated FRDM results, and
- ``spin_type``: 1 for light nucleus, 2 for Jexp from HFB fit, 3
  for Jth from HFB fit, 4 for simple ansatz.
